---
layout: post
title: This is me!
---


# Welcome 

## About me

Here I will post updates on my path into Data Science and Machine Learning, and other stories on what it's like for me to move from Product Management into Engineering. 

I have recently started the transition from Product Management into engineering and in particular Data Science and Machine Learning. 

I've been in tech for over 8 years, most of the time in a non-technical capacity, either in Project Management and more recently in Product Management. However, the whole time I felt my calling was really on the technical side. This summer I finally shook off the fear of taking a break from a comfortable career (and salary) in Product Management and re-train as a Data Scientist. 

## Why Data Science

The last products I've managed made extensive use of data and had machine learning capabilities to deliver on the the value proposition behind the products. Here I've seen the power data and the developments in machine learning can have when applied to real world use cases. Whether this was in unlocking new revenue for clients, safe guarding consumers at scale and generally support decision making processes.

I have a strong drive to work on something meaningful and impactful and my tangential experience with data and data science, convinced me that the best way to step into the technical, engineering realm was through data science and machine learning. 

## Is engineering really a calling?

I don't know! But what I do know is that every time I worked closely with engineers, whether we were designing an API, a new app architecture and just being involved in the technical details of what ever it was I was working on, I felt energized. More so than any other activity I've been involved with. 

As a product manager, I am meant to be obsessed with finding the highest value question or problem to solve. Making sure there is a solid need for it and that it is worth solving and then communicating this to engineers for them to craft a solution for it. However, I've come to realise that coming up with solutions to problems is where I feel most energised in my work and therefore have a large interest.

I am also fastinated about the posibilities of deploying data science methods as part of the Porduct Management workflow, especially in the discovery process and in optimising existing products. 

## My path so far (...till November 2022)

I've just graduated a technical data science bootcamp, [BrainStation London](https://brainstation.io/london/data-science-bootcamp). So much covered in such a short time, from the Basics of SQL to Neural Networks in 12 weeks. All the while time working on near-weekly project submissions and a final Capstone Project on [Football Transfers](https://github.com/alexmihalache/football_analytics_capstone). Will write a separate post detailing this project, but for now feel free to check the GitHub repo. 

Now I am planning new projects I want to work on and looking for datasets to dive into. All will be shared here. 
